# Discussion
This study is attempting to understand the lived experiences of military couple as they traversed through *post-deployment*. The hope was to gain information about what each member of the couple experienced, both challenging and positive, during re-integration. At a theoretical level this study is unique due to the specific inclusion of questions that asked about strengths with the aim to elicit positive factors of managing a deployment. The intent was to contribute to the growing body of literature surrounding positive aspects of deployment.
A pattern that was uncovered in our findings was that adaptability, flexibility, and patience were among the most common strengths cited by both service members and their partners. Participants identified these strengths both in themselves and in their partners, regardless of wether the participant was a service member or partner. This is evidence that these traits are likely paramount to successful reintegration as they were important enough to surface in both types of participant responses. Flexibility was also mentioned as a necessary trait for service members specifically. One consideration, which was mentioned explicitly by a participant, is that flexibility is a trait that is seen more often in service members because of the inherent lack of control in their life. This lack of control results from working in the military. Being highly flexible in your everyday life in the military would, by consequence, benefit the post-deployment process as well.
In terms of challenges, we found the most consistent ones to be learning to re-adjust to roles in the household, adjusting to the personal growth that took place within both the partner and service member during deployment, and the overall time that it takes to adjust to life at home. This is consistent with findings from Knobloch & Theiss (2012) who found problems reconnecting and difficulty communicating to be common sources of difficulty in military couples who are re-integrating. While being a significant challenge, no participants stated that they were unable to re-negotiate roles, which is consistent with other findings that most couples are able to find a new balance in household roles and responsibilities given enough time (Wood, Scarville, & Gravino, 1995). The lesson learned from this study with regards to challenges is two fold. First, it is that common challenges for couples involve making personal changes to routines, habits, and roles within the house. Second, it is that as long as military families are given enough time and resources to manage the personal adjustment required, they are very likely to figure out how to re-define roles within the house hold and successfully adjust to life together again.
When speaking about family beliefs one answer that was shared between the two groups was the idea of getting back into a rhythm. Rituals and habits such as pre- and post-deployment dinner at the same restaurant, or certain extracurriculars were highly valued. The other notable family belief, which was also mentioned as a strength, was the agreement of familial roles and a sense equity surrounding household responsibilities. With regards to family beliefs this idea of equity was extended to include dedicating certain time to be spent on developing the relationship. Making the relationship its own individual priority was important to the couples ability to reconnect. Prior research has supported the idea that clearly established roles is beneficial to reintegration and that without it military families may experience what is known as boundary ambiguity; a sense of uncertainty about who is in and out of the family and who is performing what roles (Faber, Willerton, Clymer, MacDermid, & Weiss, 2008).
When asked about support resources that the participants utilized we found that participants often mentioned church or peers as a resource. Interestingly what participants did not mention was any professional resources such as DoD sponsored programs or therapists, counselors, etc. This is consistent with the findings from other studies that indicate service members and their families often turn to peers for support (Hosek, 2006). Another theory that has been posited is that as military partners mature, they rely less on formal resources for coping and are more likely to utilize personal relationships. This maturity has not been found to be linked to total number of experienced deployments but rather other factors tied to maturity such as age and general life experience (Wood, Scarville, and Gavino, 1995). Lastly, other reasons for not seeking professional help have been cited in the literature such as difficulty getting time off of work, appointment availability, cost of treatment, and stigma related to mental health (De Burgh, White, Fear, & Iversen, 2011). 
Some responses were short single sentences yet are worth discussing. First, When asked about strengths, one service member mentioned his “self-restraint” as a strength. He did not give any further elaboration so it is difficult to know what he meant by this. One interpretation is that he is referring to his ability to hold back negative emotions or to compartmentalize in order to avoid negative interactions with his partner. 
Second, when discussing social supports, service members did not mention family in any way. Contrastingly, partners mentioned family as a support both for themselves and their service members. This raises questions about the perceived importance of family and how it differs between service members and their partners. It is difficult to glean much information from this study’s limited sample of service members however future studies would be advised to ask participants about how the perceive the importance of family in their ability to reintegrate.
Last was a statement from one female partner. She believed that the experience of completing a combat deployment was a benefit to the relationship she had with her husband. She made reference to the belief that it helped them become stronger and more confidant in their relationship because of the fact that they were able to endure a challenging experience like combat deployment. This statement is a summation of one of the purposes of this study; to shed light on the ways in which successfully navigating military stressors can be a positive experience for military couples. 
## Limitations and Weaknesses
One unexpected limitation of the current study was the general paucity in depth and detail of service member responses. In general, service member responses were shorter and involved little elaboration. This made it difficult to gather detailed information about service member experiences. Partners ,however, provided answers with more richness and detail. This leaves us wondering as to why there would be such a discrepancy between partners and service member’s responses. It is possible that the way in which questions were phrased made service members less inclined to provide detailed responses. Several participants did respond to questions with answers such as, “I’m not sure what you mean.” It is possible that the questions could have been written to more accurately tap in to the ways in which service members conceptualize their experiences of re-integration. The implications of this disparity in response style is that, with all things being equal, service member responses may provide less information and less insight than do partner responses. Future studies may want to consider trying to recruit higher number of service members to counteract their tendency for more sparse responses.
One weakness of this study was that midway through data collection the inclusion criteria had to be adjusted to allow eligibility for any couples with a deployment since September 11, 2001. This was because of inherent difficulties in finding couples who had experienced a deployment within the past two years at the time of data collection. This process did extend the time frame in which data collection occurred in order to allow for sufficient time to reach a saturation of themes. While saturation of themes was not reached, by July 2018 new participants were no longer entering the study and it was decided that data collection should be halted. 
In general it was more difficult to find service members to participate in the study when compared to partners of service members. Overall, recruiting military personnel and their families into studies appears to be a challenge. Military families lead busy lives with many responsibilities, as we have seen throughout this study, and asking for their time to complete surveys has proved more challenging than initially anticipated.  
## Conclusion
The aim of this study was to better understand the challenges and the successes that military couples experienced after a deployment. The information gathered in this study shed light onto what kinds of strengths service members and their partners possessed and how these strengths aided them in navigating post deployment. We also gained valuable information about the challenges they faced and what kind of supports military couples found helpful in dealing with those challenges. Lessons were learned about the difficulty in acquiring participants who are involved in the military. Despite a low number of participants this study managed to glean valuable information from participants by utilizing a qualitative approach that encouraged participants to be the forerunners in how their voices were portrayed in this study. 