An Exploration of the Coming Home Process for Military Couples
# Literature Review
`bonanno cite somewhere` 
`Drafts document`  
In order to try and understand our military service members we must first understand who they are. 
There are currently 1.3 million citizens serving the active duty component of the United States military and of those active duty personnel, over half are married (Military One Source, 2015; DMDC, 2016). This number does not include service members who are co-habitating so the overall number of partnered service members is likely to be even higher. That figure of 1.3 million active duty service members may sound large but it is only 0.4% of the U.S. population. The reality is that the operational stressors and responsibilities of our military are being shouldered by a small number of citizens and this reality can lead to service members feeling isolated from citizens who did not serve and may not understand. These numbers underscore the importance of understanding how military couples not only survive but thrive within the rigors of military life. 
As the United States enters its 14th year of continued operations in the Middle East we are seeing an increase in stress for both the service members and their families (Hosek, 2006). Deployment has been found to impact feelings of loneliness, anxiety, depression, and burden/guilt (Caska & Renshaw, 2011; SteelFisher, Zaslavsky, & Blendon, 2008). Deployment also places stress on military families that include changes to physical well-being, marital satisfaction, psychological well-being, and continual fear for service member safety (Burrell, Adams, Durand, & Castro, 2006). `Give examples/evidence of these stressors: Deburgh 2011 article.` Yet we also find evidence that SM’s and their families can experience positive benefits from deployment such as personal growth, independence, and new found friendships in addition to a sense of pride in the partners ability to maintain the household during deployment (Newby, McCarroll, Ursano, Zizhong, Shigemura, & Tucker-Harris, 2005; Wood, Scarville, & Gravino, 1995). Deployment is also a time where service members are able to utilize their training and participate in meaningful work (Hosek, 2006). We need a better understanding of the experience of SM’s and their families in order to gain clarity as to why some families are more resilient than others. Deployment and post deployment re-integration is known to be a period of significant stress for the military couple (Hosek, 2006; Wood et al., 1995). It is important that we work to understand the factors that contribute to resilience for the couple during this phase of military life.
## Operational Definitions
It is important to establish what we define as a family. Although the definitions in the literature vary, for the purposes of this study a family will be defined as a composition of two or more persons who are brought together over time by mutual consent who, together, assume responsibilities for familial functions (Benzies and Mychasiuk, 2009; Vanier Institute of the Family 2004). For the purposes of our study a couple must be cohabitating but not necessarily married.  
Lastly, When determining the appropriate period of time to consider "post-deployment" I will refer to the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, which describes post-deployment as the first 180 days after the service member returns to their home station.
## Deployment Cycle
A military deployment consists of several stages. The model we are referencing is that used by the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, one of the many programs in the Joint Service Support Network aimed at providing support to all service members and their families (Joint Services Program, n.d.)  
First their is pre-deployment, this is from a SM's first notification of deployment until deployment occurs. Second there is the deployment phase: from departure until demobilization. Demobilization is the third stage where the units arrive at the demobilization station and it lasts until they arrive at their home station. This is the point in the deployment where the service member is no longer deployed but still not reunited with their families. Last is the Post-deployment stage: this is the arrival at home through 180 days after arrival.
This is where the service member and their family begin the process of rejoining each other and it is the stage of deployment that this study will focus on. In post-deployment the family unit is progressing through the various challenges and joys that accompany this process. There is a general paucity of literature focused on reintegration of the military couple as a single unit. Most research is done on one member of a military couple. Of the studies that gather data from both a service member and their civilian partner it is not collected from both members of a single dyad. Data collection occurs without regard for having both members of a single dyad present (Marek, 2014).  
Life in the military is both a rewarding and stressful experience for service members and their partner. Being in the military means being in a constant state of readiness to either deploy or relocate. Managing a deployment cycle involves heightened occupational stressors for the service member and an increase in familial roles and expectations for the civilian partner. Both the service member and the spouse, when reunited after a deployment, are different people than when they separated.
## Stressors of Post-Deployment Reintegration
### Impact on the Service Member
For some military families the act of reintegrating after a deployment is challenging. Military families are used to challenges but reintegration comes with its own unique difficulties. Researchers have found that after returning home from a combat deployment some service members find it difficult to find something in their lives as meaningful as the life and death missions they conducted overseas (Bowling and Sherman, 2007). Other stressors present for service members at the time of post deployment include mental health concerns, adjusting to physical injuries, emotional destabilization, and financial problems (APA, 2007).  
In conjunction with the search for meaning, some service members also return home with mental health complications. The numbers have varied over the years but Marek and D'Aniello discovered that 70% of service members across the branches returning home from a deployment cite PTSD as having a moderate level of interference in their life. Another 22% stated that it interferes with their lives a lot.  
The following information regarding post traumatic stress (PTSD) is based on the diagnostic categories of the DSM-5 (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). PTSD is a constellation of mental health systems that result from exposure to intense stress of trauma. There are five clusters of symptoms that comprise a PTSD diagnosis. Cluster A is exposure to actual or threatened death, serious injury, or violence. Cluster B is the presence of intrusion symptoms such as distressing memories, distressing dreams, dissociative experiences, or physiological reactions to stimuli that cues recollection of the traumatic event. Cluster C involves the persistent avoidance of stimuli associated with the trauma. Cluster D involves alterations in one's mood or cognition as a result of the trauma. These alterations can present as amnesia surrounding the traumatic event,  persistent and exaggerated negative beliefs about ones self, others, or the world in general. Disorganized cognitions related to the cause of the event, as well as as markedly diminished interest in activities are also included in Cluster D. Cluster E symptoms involve alterations in arousal and reactivity associated with the trauma. That is to say, the individual may irritable or angry, endorse reckless behaviors, become hyper-vigilant, or have problems in concentration or sleep.
When looking at these symptom clusters it is apparent how they can interfere with a couple's ability to re-engage with each other and develop a healthy interpersonal connection. Looking at the statistics of Marek and D'Aniello, it is clear that mental health symptoms have the capability to be a major mediating factor in a military couple's post-deployment life. Other aspects of deployment that service members have found difficult include working within the chain of command, being away from home, and deterioration of their significant relationships (Newby, 2005). These findings from Marek and D'Aniello and Newby, combined with what we know about PTSD symptoms, culminate in a finding from Watkins, Lee, and Zamorski (2017) that suggests married service members are more negatively affected psychologically than their non-married counterparts when exposed to similar levels of combat stress. The hypothesis is that this association is due to increased familial demands faced by married service members when they return home. These additional stressors increase the complexity of coping with combat exposure while attempting to maintain and reintegrate into a household. Another possibility is poor marital satisfaction acting as a mediator in the service members ability to cope with combat stress. These findings support the assumption that life as a military couple involves unique stressors that may complicate mental health symptoms.
### Impact on the Spouse or Partner
On the home front the civilian spouse of a military couple encounters their own unique challenges during a deployment. Frequent transitions across bases, the fear of being alone while the partner is on deployment coupled with a struggle to become close again after deployment are a few examples (Burrell, Adams, Durand, & Castro, 2006). Uncertainty about military partners safety and rumination about the precariousness of the occupation were some others. Finding a support network after becoming a military partner is challenging as well (APA, 2007). The women in this study stated that their civilian friends no longer understood them and trying to integrate into the hierarchy of the army wife life is strenuous (Larsen, Clauss-Ehlers, and Cosden, 2015). The process of preparing for a deployment is full of complex emotions. One military spouse described it as "this fear of being alone was coupled with the struggle to experience closeness during this difficult time, while also needing distance to cope with the emotional difficulty of an impending departure" `need page number for quote`(Larsen, 2015). This quote exemplifies the difficulties that precipitate the impending departure of a military service member. Other stressors for the spouse include perceptions and assumptions about the level of danger encountered by the military spouse as well as difficulties in finding a supportive community and in-group that can serve as a form of social support.
### Impact on the Relationship
When partners of military service members were asked about the impact that PTSD symptoms had on their relationship with the service member, 100% of the partners said that PTSD had at least a moderate impact on their family. These numbers speak to the high impact that deployment has on a military couples ability to successfully reintegrate into family life post-deployment (Marek and D'Aniello, 2014; Newby, 2005).
## Post-deployment Stressors
Marek and D'Aniello (2014) investigated the presence of post-deployment stressors for military service members and non-linked partners of service members (i.e. participants were not members of the same dyad). What these researchers found was that both the presence of mental health symptoms of the service member and the partner's perception of their mental health symptoms had an impact on a couple's ability to effectively navigate the post-deployment experience. Both the partners and the service member's perception of the others mental health has an impact on the couple's stress levels. The strategy to combat this stress would be open communication which is an activity often cited as difficult for re-integrating couples to achieve.
There are many tasks involved in reintegrating and dealing with the stressors of post-deployment life. A few of these key tasks are a) Redefining Roles and Expectations b) Creating Intimacy in Relationships; and c) Creating a Sense of Shared Meaning Surrounding the Deployment Experience (Bowling and Sherman, 2008). 
*Redefining Roles and Expectations*  
Over the course of a deployment a partner is tasked with being the sole proprietor of the household. They make the important household decisions and they maintain the stateside responsibilities of the family while the service member is away. When the SM returns the couple must now renegotiate household roles and responsibilities. This redistribution can be challenging because both the SM and the partner have changed as a result of the deployment. If there are children involved this process is further complicated by the necessity to show a unified front in terms of discipline and childcare when previously during deployment these roles were being fulfilled by only the partner.  
Another challenge is that upon return, the service member may feel like they no longer fit into the family routine and are otherwise not a necessary component to the family structure. This feeling may be intensified by intrapersonal feelings of emotional and physical exhaustion that make the process of being present and connected to the partner and family that much more challenging. Navigating the redefining of roles can be a difficult feat to accomplish. As noted in Bowling and Sherman (2008) flexibility and communication are paramount to that success as well as both partners allowing space for one another to adjust to the new roles and the inevitable transition period that is required during this process.
*Creating Intimacy in Relationships*  
Another key component to a successful reintegration is creating intimacy in the relationship. Self-disclosure is seen as one way for couples to come together and connect interpersonally. Self-disclosure can be hard for the service member because soldiers may feel they can only be understood by fellow soldiers or that the only acceptable emotion to show is anger (Bowling and Sherman, 2008; Cox, 2012). When in combat situations the learned behavior is to stifle emotions like sadness, fear, or regret. They may engage in emotional construction in order to cope effectively with the high-stress environment of a combat deployment. While this behavior was effective and appropriate in combat once back home these behaviors are no longer the most helpful and can create distance between SM and partner. Additionally soldiers are often seen as the “rock” of the family and are considered strong burden bearers and therefore may be less open to vulnerable communication. It can be difficult to let go of this learned behavior given its effectiveness in a combat zone. It can take considerable time and effort for these emotional barriers to be broken down. The couple must re-learn the communication skills and the intimacy required for optimal couple functioning. According to Bowling and Sherman (2008) it is important to normalize these challenges and they suggest engaging in structured activities and learning basic communication skills in order to improve a couple's ability to foster intimacy within the relationship. This open communication is also important in creating a shared meaning of deployment which is described below.
*Shared Meaning of Deployment*  
During a deployment both the SM and their family members develop relationships with separate groups outside of the family network. These groups serve the function of creating shared experiences and meaning around the deployment. SM's grow close with the soldiers with whom they deploy while family members find support in other military families going through a similar experience. Once together again, the SM and partner are tasked with understanding and adjusting to the deployment experiences of the other person. Each person is likely to develop their own meaning related to the deployment experience and understanding that meaning requires many of the abilities mentioned above. The partners need to allow time and space for the process to unfold while utilizing open communication to try and understand each other. To overcome these difficulties the coupe can develop a narrative surrounding how deployment has changed them both positively and negatively. This narrative would be unique to the couple and incorporate the experiences of both members. These changes can be viewed as growth that will enhance the couple's functioning and create stronger bonds between them.Being able to foster family cohesion through shared meaning has the potential to aid the service member in feeling wanted as a part of the family and it can help the civilian partner feel like they gained something out of the deployment (Bowling and Sherman, 2008).  

In discussing these three tasks involved in reintegrating - a) redefining roles and expectations; creating intimacy in relationships; and c) creating a sense of shared meaning surrounding the deployment experience - we can identify both potential challenges as well as potential solutions that may or may not come out in the data collection of this current study.
## State of The Literature
**「 Adding in the model of resilience and define family resilience. Bring in family resilience and define it at beginning of state of literature section」**  
There is a general lack of evidence that wartime deployment has a universally negative impact on marital satisfaction and stability (Sayers, 2010). This is supported by research that focuses on the coping methods utilized by military spouses during deployment. Larsen identified coping strategies utilized by Army wives that centered around three general domains: individual coping, family beliefs, and sociocultural processes. Moreover, Larsen et al. (2015) found that if couples were able to find meaning in the deployment such as belief in the overall mission or viewing the stressors of deployment as a way to strengthen the relationship, couples were more likely to view a deployment positively. One of the obstacles to a comprehensive understanding of family resilience is the lack of integration and synthesis of the main risk and protective factors that influence outcomes (Benzies and Mychiasiuk, 2009).  

What the literature does say is that there are a number of identified protective factors that can increase a family's potential for resilience. First, Benzies and Mychiasiuk (2009) found that smaller family sizes, families with older mothers, and dual income households experiences less stress and have a greater capacity to be resilient when compared to larger families, families with younger mothers, and single income families. Benzies and Mychiasiuk also found that social support from ones partner enhances a couples ability to cope with social and economic stressors. This is consistent with Allen, Rhoades, Stanley, & Markman (2011) who found that couples reporting high levels of negative communication and more negative "spill-over" between work and the relationship had high levels of stress. Allen et al. found that Army couples who were able to talk about Army related stressors reported higher marital satisfaction. These findings suggest that social support via the romantic partnership is crucial to managing various types of life stressors. It is important to understand what social support in a romantic relationship looks like. Benzies and Mychusiak (2009) define familial social support as "interpersonal interactions within a family structure, that provides support or tangible help.”
While these protective factors of small family size, mothers age, and income, are unrelated to the specifics of this study's focus,they may be present in the participants lives. Given that these factors may be present and mediate the results of this study it is important to have an understanding of their presence. The existence of these protective factors in certain research contexts and not others speaks to the importance and the necessity of integrating and synthesizing research across specialties and across research domains. 
When it comes to military families specifically the research thus far is somewhat inconsistent. For example, in one particular study the researchers found that service members with greater military experience, defined as years in service plus family history of service, did not report less stress during reintegration (Allen, Rhoades, Stanley, & Markman, 2011). This finding is inconsistent with prior literature and exemplifies the necessity of parsing out the details of the lived experience of military families to better understand their experiences.
As we have seen, the current state of the literature surrounding familial stress is not always consistent with the literature surrounding military families. Benzies and Mychusiak (2009) examined familial resilience from a general perspective while Allen, Rhoades, Stanley and Markman collected data specifically on Army couples. While Benzies and Mychusiak found social support to be vital in dealing with familial stress, Allen et al (2011) found that interpersonal connections within Army families did not correlate with familial stress. Rather it was the sense of needing social support and not having it, or not knowing where to find it, that was correlated with increased stress. If families knew how to get social support if it was needed, they reported lower levels of stress in the relationship. By looking at both the consistencies and the dissparities between general family resilience literature and the literature focused on Army couples we can see that while certain evidence for protective factors and stressors found in general family systems holds true for military families, this is not always the case. It stands to reason that the unique situation military families live in creates unique stressors as well as unique protective factors, both of which thus far have not been explored in the literature with enough detail.
The concept that wartime deployment is universally negative has yet to bare out in the literature (Bonanno, 2008; Larsen et al, 2015; Sayers, 2010). A major component to this is a lack of integration of the literature that is focused on protective factors with the literature focused on the negative impact of deployment on family functioning. The literature thus far tends to ask for experiences that fall in one or the other of those categories, not both. Additionally, the literature on family resilience has yet to focus on couples who live within the context of military life. The research that does exist on military families is not consistent enough to to draw any meaningful conclusions across studies. Military families experience enough unique stressors that warrant a more detailed inquiry. What is needed is an understanding of the lived experience of being a military couple that comes from the voices of the couple themselves. This study aims to contribute findings that draw directly from the participants stories and experiences as military couples.
  
*Positive Outcomes of Deployment*  
Historically much of the literature is focused on the negative consequences of a military deployment. In some areas of burgeoning literature however, couples do cite positive outcomes of navigating a military deployment. A deployment can be a time to test the strength of the relationship by forcing meaningful and conversations and building deeper connections between the partners. In an investigation of utilizing CBT couple's therapy during reintegration, Sayers (2010) found that 9% of married service members reported an improvement of their relationship with their spouse as a result of deployment. Another study that followed a unit assigned to peacekeeping missions in Europe found 77% percent of soldiers reporting some kind of benefit as a result of deployment. The three most reported benefits were: making additional money, self-improvement, and "time to think" (Newby, 2005).
## Current Contribution
In this study we are attempting to understand the lived experience of the military couple through a qualitative lens and we are hoping to gain valuable information surrounding both the challenges of reintegrating together and also the positive protective factors that make reintegration easier and more meaningful. The guiding question is as follows: what is the lived experience of the military couple navigating the homecoming process in post-deployment life? Better understanding of how a couple deals with and reacts to stressful events can provide insight into what is detrimental and what is strengthening for military couples. Repeated exposure to stress may be valuable learning experiences for couples that leads to maturation and learning \(Palmer, 2008\).  
The intention of this study is to build on the work that has already been done in the field of military couples research and to provide a unique approach to understanding the lives of military couples as they reintegrate their lives following a deployment. The stress of reintegration impacts family members and family units differently and thus it is necessary to investigate each of those components of the family structure separately \(Marek, 2014\). Expanded on what was stated earlier, this study will utilize an interpretative phenomenological analysis \(IPA\) approach to collect the stories of military couples going through the experience of post deployment re-integration in an attempt to better understand what strengths and what barriers exist for these couples that mediates the post-deployment experience.