# Methods 20 JUN 2017
### Methodology
The qualitative approach used in this study will be interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA). IPA attempts to explore one's personal experience with the world around them and is concerned with the individuals perception of an event (Smith, 2015). In the case of this study we are attempting to understand the military couples experience as they re-integrate into life at home after a deployment. The researchers are not attempting to make an objective statement regarding re-integration itself but rather we are trying to bring light to the unique subjective experience of the military couple. An acknowledgment that is made when utilizing IPA methodology is that there are two layers of interpretation involved in any sort of data gathering. There is the participant attempting to the understand their world and there is the researcher attempting to understand the participant who is attempting to understand their world. This dual layer of abstraction is called a *double hermeneutic* It is the reason a researcher chooses to focus their inquiry on the perception of the participant rather than trying to gain an objective understanding of the world. 
Lastly, IPA is an idiographic approach to research as opposed to a nomothetic approach (Smith, 2015). That is to say, IPA is more interested in the detailed examination of a particular case. In this study, that detailed examination is focused on one specific part of the overall deployment cycle of which a military couple is navigating. We are interested in what is happening for the military couple at the point in time when the service member has returned home and is attempting to navigate family life and re-connect with their civilian partner. 
### Social Location and Researcher Bias
As the researcher conducting the participant interviews and performing the coding of transcripts, it is important to be aware of my entry point into the research as well as making the reader aware of possible biases I may have. I have taken steps to become aware of and minimize the influence that my biases may have on the research however, it is impossible to completely sever oneself from their biases. At the time of data collection and interpretation the primary student researcher will have joined the Air Force and upon completion of their doctorate degree will be working as a clinical psychologist in an active duty capacity. Given my affiliation with the Air Force it is possible to want to over-analyze or otherwise focus too closely on the positive aspects that result from a military life. 
That being said, my own closeness to the research can have positive impacts as well. For starters, being a member, even at a broad level, of the group in which I am attempting to understand gives me a certain amount of credibility with that group. There is an opportunity for me to be seen as less of an outsider probing for information and more as a curious member of the in-group. Being a member of the military and researching the experience of other members of the military means I have an interest in seeing my participants represented fairly and will do my best to ensure that happens. Steps being taken to minimize the impact my bias has on my research includes bracketing that is done as a part of the research process. Additionally, there will be a research assistant involved in the transcription and analyses process who is not affiliated with the military and a Pacific University faculty member overseeing this project who is also not affiliated with the military.
### Participants and Recruitment
Participants are required to meet the following requirements for participation: be a) a partnered service member (SM) of any military branch in the United States Armed Forces who has been deployed within the last two years (at time of participation) or b) a co-habitating partner of a SM who was deployed within the last two years (at time of participation). All participants must be at least 18 years of age, have access to the internet, and fluent enough in English to complete an online qualitative survey. The time frame for recruitment is October 2017 to April 2018. 
Sampling methods will include snowball sampling methods as well as reaching out to local community organizations involved in supporting military families. After making contact with initial military couples, we hope to utilize "friends of friends" and "word of mouth" to gather a sufficient number of participants. The number of participants is determined by data saturation, estimated at 18 participants. This number was determined by examining the participant totals for similar qualitative studies (i.e. Larsen et al, 2015) and by taking into account the resources and capabilities of the researcher. 
### Operational Definitions
It is important to establish what we define as a family. Although the definitions in the literature vary for the purposes of this study a family will be defined as a composition of two or more persons who are brought together over time by mutual consent who, together, assume responsibilities for familial functions (Benzies and Mychasiuk, 2009; Vanier Institute of the Family 2004). For the purposes of our study a couple must be cohabitating but not necessarily married. 
Lastly, When determining the appropriate period of time to consider "post-deployment" I will refer to the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, which describes post-deployment is the first 180 days after the service member returns to their home station.
### Procedure
In this study, the emphasis is on understanding the lived experience of a military couple during the post-deployment phase. Pending IRB approval, we will be utilizing a qualitative survey to gather this information. A qualitative survey is the most appropriate method for data collection because it allows us to ask open-ended questions while also reaching a wide sample size when compared to doing in-person interviews. Recruitment will be done via online postings and listserv postings for organizations relevant to the topic of interest as well as through utilization of current military community contacts of the research team. The online sources include but are not limited to The APA Division 19 listserv, military.com (support website for military members and families), and milspouse.com (a support website for military spouses). There are no incentives involved in participating apart from aiding the advancement of research into military couples. Research team contacts include friends and family currently serving in the military, members of the Oregon Reserve National Guard, and the secondary networks of those primary contacts. The recruitment flyer will have a brief statement regarding the purpose of the survey, inculsion critertia for participants, a link to the online survey should the reader choose to participate and a statement regarding the fact that this study is not connected with the Department of Defense or any other defense agency and that it is completely voluntary if individuals choose to participate. A detailed informed consent will be included at the beginning of the survey prior to any data collection.
The survey will be run on a private Qualtrics survey account acessible only by myself, the two faculty supervisors, and a research assistant. The survey is to begin with an introduction to the survey structure and the informed consent. After agreeing to participate the first page of questions will be basic demographic questions, detailed below. After demographics, the survey will include three open-ended questions each covering the broad theme of information we intend to gather. The three broad themes are: a) strengths of the couple that the participant believes made re-integration easier; b) barriers that made re-integration more difficult; and c) what forms of support did you and your partner have to lean on during re-integration?. An alternative structure for the three broad questions is to base them on the themes of military couple coping found by Larsen et al (2015) which are as follows: 1a) what strengths did you bring to the re-integration process 1b) What strengths did your partner bring to the re-integration process;  2a) What family beliefs and/or practices were important in the re-integration process for you 2b) What family beliefs and/or practices were important in the re-integration process for your partner; 3a) What kind of, if any, social support was relevant for you during re-integration 3b) What kind of, if any, social support was relevant for your partner during re-integration? This second method of questioning involves the participant making assumptions about their partners beliefs and attitudes, however, it gives us an opportunity to see what kind of role an individuals perspective on themselves and their partner plays in the reintegration process. Finally, before the end of the data collection section, participants will be asked if they asked their partner to complete the study. If the answer is yes, they will be asked how the partner felt about the study. If the participant answers no, they will be asked why they did not ask their partner to complete the survey.
 The three questions will be presented to each participant randomly to avoid any order effects impacting responses. At the end of the survey participants will be offered an opportunity to conduct an additional skype interview to collect more specific information related to domains established by Larsen et al (2015): individual level processes, family beliefs/practices, and sociocultrual processes. After that participants will be debriefed, offered resources for military couples support services and/or reintegration services (see below), and given a thank you for their participation and service. This survey is an anonymous survey unless participants agree to a skype interview and provide contact information in which case the survey information will become confidential. Contact information will be removed from survey data and stored separately thus only accessible by the primary researcher. This contact information will be stored in a encrypted Box online storage account. After data collection the survey responses will be coded and analyzed by myself and possibly an additional research assistant. The research assitant would be a graduate student from Pacific University. 
*Services for End of Survey*
**Military One Source**
- [tel:800-342-9647][1] 
- militaryonesource.mil
**Defense Center of Excellence**
- [tel:866-966-1020][2] 
- [http://www.dcoe.mil][3]
 **Real Warriors**
-  [http://www.realwarriors.net/family][4]
Militaryfamily.org/info-resources/
### Data Analysis
After survey completion, responses will be collected and preserved verbatim for analysis. According to IPA theory, the process of analyzing qualitative responses is to begin at the detailed idiographic level and focus on case at a time before moving to a more broad level generalization of concepts between transcripts (Smith, 2015). Re-reading is imperative in becoming familiar with the text. This is why the researcher will read through the survey responses of one participant several times to get an overall feel for them. Consecutive pass throughs help make sense of the text and aid in gaining additional insight into its meaning. This will be done for all responses before any coding occurs. After that, the researcher will return to the individual survey responses to begin coding. Statements pertaining to the lived experience of being a military couple will be focused on and coded for their meaning. These codes should be directly related to the meaning of the text it is meant to represent. While still focusing on one survey response, these codes are to be clustered by similarity and given a theme. This theme is more abstract than codes but should still connect back to the primary source material. As themes are identified they too will be clustered together to identify which themes are primary themes and which are subthemes. Durin this phase it is important to refer back to the source material often to ensure your commmonality of themese is supported by the text. This process is repeated for each survey response. As you progress across surveys, the researcher is looking for themes that emerge among multiple survey responses. These common themes are the results of the qualitative investigation.
### Survey Questions
**Guiding Question**: what is the lived experience of the military couple dyad navigating the homecoming process in post-deployment life?
**Demographic Questions**
* Are you a service member in the United States Armed Forces or a partner of a service member? (check box response)
* How long have you and your partner been in a romantic relationship together?
* Are you married? If so, for how long?
* Branch of Service or service member branch of service
* Years in service (of partner)
* age, gender, rank (of partner)
* Date range of most recent deployment
* How many times have you (or your partner) been deployed during your (their) career?
* Did you (or your partner) experience any combat during the most recent deployment?
* Do you have children? 
**Option One**
* What were some strengths that you and your partner that you believe made re-integration easier
* What barriers made re-integration more difficult
* What forms of support did you and your partner utilize during re-integration?
**Option Two**
- 1a) what strengths did you bring to the re-integration process 
- 1b) What strengths did your partner bring to the re-integration process
- 2a) What family beliefs and/or practices were important in the re-integration process for you
- 2b) What family beliefs and/or practices were important in the re-integration process for your partner
- 3a) What kind of, if any, social support was relevant for you during re-integration 
- 3b) What kind of, if any, social support was relevant for your partner during re-integration?
*Interview Questions*
Pulling from Larsen et al (2015) these questions are broken up into three domains: individual level processes, family beliefs/practices, and sociocultrual processes.
*lots of comments in LRC edits about questions*
**Individual Level**
* What were your main sources of support during the post-deployment phase?
* if had multiple deployments, Were there any patterns in the coming home process that you noticed across your multiple deployments?
* Were there any stressors that were salient for you and your partner when you (they) came home from deployment (i.e. finances, chores, sexual frustration, loneliness etc.?)
* What has been the hardest part of your re-adjusting to life at home after your (partner's) most recent deployment?
* What was the best part of your re-adjusting to life at home after your (partner's) most recent deployment?
  - What have been the most salient experiences of your being back at home after deployment?
* what kind of actions did you and your family take in preparation for the service member returning from deployment?
**Family Beliefs/Practices**
* Did your family receive any formal training (such as STRONG BONDS) on how to work through post-deployment difficulties?
* What do you feel you've learned about your relationship as a result of your latest deployment?
* How does military culture fit with your family's culture?
* What was communication like for you and your partner when (you) they got back from deployment?
**Sociocultural Processes**
* Did social support from friends or family play a role in the coming home process?* * {If multiple deployments} Were there any patterns in the coming home process that were consistent across multiple deployments? 
  - Did the coming home process change over the multiple deployments?

[1]:	tel:800-342-9647
[2]:	tel:866-966-1020
[3]:	http://www.dcoe.mil
[4]:	http://www.realwarriors.net/family