# Findings
Of the 15 total responses submitted by participants, 8 fit inclusion criteria of the study. Of the 7 ineligible responses 6 did not contain any qualitative responses and 1 did not fit the inclusion criteria of co-habitating during post-deployment. Of the remaining 8 responses, 5 were by female civilian partners of service members and the remaining 3 were male service members. One participant identified themselves as being in a dual military relationship and answered the survey from the perspective of a male service member.
No eligible data was collected from female service members or civilian male partners. When the word *service member* is used below it refers to a male service member with a female civilian partner, except when indicated otherwise to denote the dual-military partner. The word *partner* refers to a female civilian spouse. Of note, service members responses were short, precise, and gave little elaboration or explanation. Partner’s responses were more expansive.
The analysis process involves examining the participant’s survey responses to identify The following themes were extracted from the 8 eligible surveys. Themes were constructed by identifying commonalities across participant responses and are supported by direct quotations from participants. In summation, both service members and partners of service members shared commonalities in their identified strengths, barriers, and supports during post-deployment. Common strengths across participants include adaptability and flexibility, both in themselves and their partners. A common barrier was having to adapt to changes in one’s partner following a deployment. The most commonly cited support system was peers and in-group individuals. Differences between participants existed in the utilization or lack-there-of of family as a source of support. In addition, service members did not identify activities, hobbies, or use of social media as a form of support whereas partner’s mentioned all three of these supports. 
`figure out how to weave this into the above`Family beliefs that were important to both types of respondents included having shared household responsibilities and being able to spend time together to reconnect as a couple. Social supports were the responses that differed most between respondents. Partners mentioned both family and peers who can relate to them as important sources of support. Service members stated that peers, particularly other service members, were their most important source of social support. There was no mention of family or familial relationships by service members when asked about social supports. Lastly, one respondent mentioned professional services a known support but not something they had personally utilized. 
## Themes
### Adaptability, Flexibility, Patience, Support
When asked about strengths, both of themselves and their partners, participants most commonly mentioned flexibility, adaptability, and adjusting well to new situations. One partner stated, “my husband is highly adaptable.” Another said, “my husband’s strengths during re-integration were his ability to quickly and easily adapt to new situations and his easy-going, go with the flow attitude.” She continued to say, “He has always demonstrated a considerable amount of flexibility.” She attributed this flexibility to being a necessary trait for those in the military, as they are given “little control over what they do and where they go.” Patience, understanding, and being open about what one needs from their partner were also commonly mentioned as strengths. One male service member mentioned his “self-restraint” as a strength however he gave no further explanation as to what he meant by this. Most commonly male service members identified their ability to fall back into roles in the relationship and being flexible as their strengths, with one service member identifying his strengths as “flexibility and understanding”.
When asked what their partner brought to re-integration, one service member said, “support, understanding, patience”. Another partner said that being patient was important during post-deployment. She expressed the following as a strength of hers: “understanding that my spouse may not want to share everhthing but letting him know he can”. 
Partners also mentioned that showing their service member they cared and were devoted was something they saw as a strength in themselves. For example, one participant said that she “tried to show him how much I missed him and loved him and cared about him by doing little things, like packing his lunch and slipping love notes into them”.  
Of note, one participant, a partner, cited a history of combat deployments as a strength. She said the following, “I think having an intense combast deployment in our history has allowed us to become more resilient together.”
### Roles, Growth, and Time
Some of the biggest challenges in post-deployment were balancing roles, adjusting to personal growth and changes, and the time it takes for the service member to adjust to home life.
In discussing balancing multiple roles one dual military service member said “rebalancing both or our works and reestablishing both of our units projected operations to schedule a balance live {sic} at work and at home”. “Refamiliarizing” oneself with the family and the day-to-day roles of living at home was a major challenge cited by both service members and partners. Similarly, one partner described “time” as being the biggest challenge because “time doesn’t stand still for my husband while he is deployed”. Time, refamiliarizing, and personal growth are all encapsulated in the following quote from one partner,  “{a challenge is}The slow process of my husband becoming an active parent, my husband becoming an active spouse once again.”
Another frequently cited barrier was the personal growth and change that takes place in both the service member and the partner during a deployment. Said one partner, “I think that even if a deployment is considered easy...it’s always an adjustment process upon return”. She continued to say that for herself, she craved more alone time and had to get used to her service member “being around” and wanting to spend time together. “I was not used to having someone else home with me everyday after I got off work.” A quote that encapsulates the service member perspective of change and post-deployment comes from one service member saying, “I had a different personality each time I returned from combat and was on edge for weeks.” 
Participants also wrote about the experience of having to get to know each other again with one partner saying, “one of the harest parts of coming back together after a deployment was feeling a little like strangers.” She continued on to say, “Each time he would deploy and come home we had to become familiar with each other again.”
### Rhythms, Equality, Time
Service members gave minimal information about family beliefs and practices that were important to themselves. The responses are as follows: “patients (sic) and getting back into a rhythm; “not discussing my experiences”; and having shared goals and priorities. For service members, their understanding of family beliefs seemed to focus on behaviors that the couple did together or a shared mindset they were both able to focus on. 
Partners answered this question with more depth and elaboration. One answer that was shared between the two groups was the idea of “getting back into a rhythm” which is how one service member described it. One partner spoke of the necessity of getting “back into a normal routine any time we reintegrate.” One partner also mentioned sustaining pre- and post-deployment rituals as being important for their family: “Having a dinner at a particular restaurant before he leaves and going to the same restaurant when he gets back. Going to extracurricular activities as a family.” One participant explained how equality and coming to an agreement about roles was a family belief that was important for them. “I value being treated like an equal in a relationship, and think both partners should contribute equally to household duties...we were able to come to an agreement around splitting chores and taking turns cooking.” She also wrote that this division of labor helped the service member feel cared for and loved because it meant she would prepare dinner on certain nights when he returned home from work. Dedicating and setting aside time for the relationship was also mentioned by both partners and service members as something they viewed as important and something their partners viewed as important. One partner, speaking of her husband wrote, “he mentioned a few times how nice it was to go on a date or just hang out at home when he returned.”
### Church, Peers, Family
Several participants, both service member and partner, mentioned church and peers who understand them as a source of support. One partner described church support as thus, “my husband and I are decout Christians (Lutherans) and we reached out to our church community as well as friends around the world for support and prayer.” Female partners mentioned family, friends, and activities such as yoga, body building, or girls nights out as helpful during the reintegration process. One partner, when describing her family support, wrote “My dad was always a great source of support for me when my husband was deployed.” Interestingly, while several partners mentioned family as sources of support, no male service member mentioned family as being supportive. However, one partner, speaking for her service member mentioned both her own family and his family as a source of support for him. She said that “spending time with my family was important for my husband” and that he “has a great relationship with his parents and would call his mom every weekend”. A second partner stated that her husband “appreciated when my cousins visited with their kids.” It seems that partners are able to identify the ways in which family is a positive impact for service members but the service members in this study did not identify family as a meaningful support. While one participant mentioned their therapist as a “social support”, counseling and other professional resources were most often mentioned as something participants knew of as available resources but not something they personally utilized. Service member answers were rather unilateral in this domain, frequently mentioning co-workers or friends as their only social support. One service member even wrote “none” when asked about forms of social support. This was the same service member who identified as suffering from PTSD and moral injury.

### Communication
This was seen as both both a strength and a challenge for couples. *Find quotes* Spouses found that communication during deployment was important to making the post-deployment process easier. This was seen as a barrier when it was not possible, such as during high tempo combat deployments. Male service members stated that not discussing my experiences”was helpful for them when they returned home. One female partner mentioned that her husband was not a “talker” however she was a verbal processor and as a result, it was challenging to learn how to communicate with each other after a deployment. Female partners also mentioned that talking to others who were going through similar processes was helpful. This is similar to male service member statements that talking to other service members was helpful.
