### Methodology
`cite IPA model and double hermenutic`
The qualitative approach used in this study was interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA). IPA attempts to explore one's personal experience with the world around them and is concerned with the individuals perception of an event (Smith, 2015). In this study we attempted to better understand the military couples experience as they re-integrated into life at home after a deployment. The researchers did not attempt to make an objective statement regarding re-integration itself but rather tried to bring light to the unique subjective experience of the military couple. An acknowledgment must be made when utilizing IPA methodology which is that there are two layers of interpretation involved in any sort of data gathering. There is the participant attempting to understand their world and there is the researcher attempting to understand the participant who is attempting to understand their world. This dual layer of abstraction is called a *double hermeneutic*. It is the reason a researcher chooses to focus their inquiry on the perception of the participant rather than trying to gain an objective understanding of the world.
Lastly, IPA is an idiographic approach to research as opposed to a nomothetic approach (Smith, 2015). That is to say, IPA is more interested in the detailed examination of a particular case. In this study, that detailed examination focused on one specific part of the overall deployment cycle of which a military couple is navigating. We were interested in what is happening for the military couple at the point in time when the service member returned home and the couple attempted to navigate family life and re-connect with each other. 
### Social Location and Researcher Bias
As the researcher who conducted the dissemination and collection of participant survey responses and performed the coding of transcripts, it is important to be aware of my entry point into the research as well as making the reader aware of possible biases I may have. I have taken steps to become aware of and minimize the influence that my biases may have on the research however, it is impossible to completely sever oneself from one's biases. At the time of data collection and interpretation the primary student researcher was a member of the Air Force and upon completion of his doctorate degree will be working as a clinical psychologist in an active duty capacity. Given my affiliation with the Air Force it is possible to want to over-analyze or otherwise focus too closely on the positive aspects that result from a military life. 
That being said, my own closeness to the research can have positive impacts as well. For starters, being a member, even at a broad level, of the group in which I am attempting to understand gives me a certain amount of credibility with that group. There is an opportunity for me to be seen as less of an outsider probing for information and more as a curious member of the in-group. Being a member of the military and researching the experience of other members of the military means I have an interest in seeing my participants represented fairly and will do my best to ensure that happens. 
Regardless of the benefits and risks of my affiliation with the Air Force it is important to take steps to minimize the impact of any bias on the research process. To address potential bias, I first engaged in bracketing. Bracketing is the practice of mitigating preconceptions that the researcher may have towards the research subjects or the data. It is an attempt by the researcher to build and maintain self-awareness surrounding their role as a research tool and how they can impact the interpretation of qualitative data (Tufford and Newman, 2012). Bracketing is a process that the researcher engaged in throughout the research project. Additionally, to ensure the accuracy of the results, a research assistant was involved in the transcription coding and analysis process. Also, a Pacific University faculty member not affiliated with the military oversaw the research study. 
### Participants `use language from IRB forms for participant eligibilty requirements`
Participants were required to meet the following requirements for participation: be *a)* a partnered service member (SM) of any military branch in the United States Armed Forces who has been deployed since 9/11 or *b)* a partner of a service member who was deployed since 9/11 and who were co-habitating at the time of post-deployment. All participants must be at least 18 years of age and have access to the internet in order to complete an online qualitative survey. 
### Procedure
In this study, the emphasis is on understanding the lived experience of a military couple during the post-deployment phase. We utilized a qualitative online survey to gather this information. A copy of the survey questions can be found in Appendix A. A qualitative survey was the most appropriate method for data collection because it allowed us to ask open-ended questions while also reaching a wide sample size when compared to performing in-person interviews. Recruitment took place through online postings and listserv postings with organizations relevant to the topic of interest as well as through utilization of current personal military community contacts of the research team. The online sources included but were not limited to The APA Division 19 listserv, military.com (support website for military members and families), and milspouse.com (a support website for military spouses). No incentives were offered to participants. Participants were also recruited through personal contacts of the researchers which included friends and family currently serving in the military or with knowledge of eligible participants, members of the Oregon Reserve National Guard, and the secondary networks of those primary contacts. The time frame for recruitment was January to July 2018. By end of data collection 15 total responses were submitted by participants. Eight fit inclusion criteria of the study. Of the seven ineligible responses six did not contain any qualitative responses and one did not fit the inclusion criteria of co-habitating during post-deployment. Of the remaining eight responses, five were by female civilian partners of service members and the remaining three were male service members. One participant identified themselves as being in a dual military relationship and answered the survey from the perspective of a male service member. The survey ran on a private Qualtrics survey account accessible only by the research team consisting of myself, the two faculty supervisors, and a research assistant. The survey began with an introduction to the survey structure and the informed consent. After agreeing to participate the first page of questions was basic demographic questions, detailed below. After demographics, the survey included three open-ended questions each covering the broad theme of the information we intended to gather. The question that guided the construction of the following survey items is as follows: What is the lived experience of the military couple navigating the homecoming process in post-deployment life?
The research questions of this study were based on the findings of a qualitative study by Larsen et al (2015). Larsen et al. attempted to identify protective factors involved in deployment as it was perceived by Army wives. In doing so the authors identified three domains that their findings were grouped into: individual coping, family beliefs/practices, and sociocultural processes. In developing our research questions for the current study we used these three domains as reference points for the development of our questions.
*Individual Coping*
At the individual level the protective actors that exist surround acculturation, the development of individual purpose in a partners deployment, and being able to express emotion. It was reported that being able to acculturate to the new demands of a military lifestyle was foundational to the participants ability to connect with other spouses and adopt new norms, beliefs, and practices. For the current study, we are interested in seeing how that individual process of acculturation plays out in the homecoming process where service members and their partners are tasked with re-acculturating to a new family life with  different beliefs and practices when compared to life before deployment. 
*Family Beliefs/Practices*
Aspects of this domain include communicating, role flexibility, emotional regulation, problem solving, and creating shared meaning. In Larsen et al's findings one participant is quoted as feeling that her relationship grew stronger during deployment due to the nature of the communication while the service member was overseas (2015). By only being able to talk to each other the couple was able to learn more about each other and gain new insights. Role flexibility refers to how the partners delegate household functions during deployment. Being able to work together without becoming defensive was found to be key to effective management of the deployment. Constructing meaning in the context of Larsen et al's study refers to a couple's ability to find mutual benefit from deployment. Many spouses cited deployment as "testing the depth of the spousal bond and proved it's strength" (Larsen, 2015). 
*Sociocultural Processes*
In the context of deployment, social support helped spouses feel understood and connected with fellow military spouses. This feeling of understanding aided them in being able to navigate deployment stateside. These social supports came in the form of both formal support such as organized groups and informal support such as causal meetings with friends. 
These three domains, individual coping, family beliefs/practices, and sociocultural processes provide insight into the deployment experience of Army wives. By utilizing Larsen et al.’s findings the current study was able to ground its survey questions in previous research findings. 
After completing the survey, participants were offered resources for military couples support services and reintegration services and thanked for their participation and service. This survey was an anonymous survey. Identifying information, if any was provided, was removed from survey data. After data collection the survey responses were coded and analyzed by the primary researcher and the research assistant who was a graduate student from Pacific University. 
### Data Analysis
After survey completion, responses were collected and preserved verbatim for analysis. According to IPA theory, the process of analyzing qualitative responses began at the detailed idiographic level and focused on one case at a time before moving to a more broad level generalization of concepts between transcripts (Smith, 2015). Re-reading was imperative for the researchers to become familiar with the text. This is why the researcher read through the survey responses of each participant several times to get an overall understanding of the individual response. Consecutive pass throughs helped make sense of the text and aided in gaining additional insight into its meaning. This process was performed for all responses before any coding occurred. After that, the researchers returned to the individual survey responses and began coding. Statements pertaining to the lived experience of being a military couple were focused on and coded for their meaning. These codes directly related to the meaning of the text that it is meant to represent. While still focusing on one survey response, these codes were then clustered by similarity and given a theme. This theme was more abstract than the individual codes but still connected back to the primary source material. As themes were identified they too were clustered together to identify which themes were primary themes and which were sub-themes. During this phase it was important to refer back to the source material often to ensure commonality of themes was supported by the text. This process was repeated for each survey response. As researchers progressed across surveys, the researcher looked for themes that emerged among multiple survey responses. These common themes are the results of the qualitative investigation.
To account for the possibility of a disparity in the amount of survey responses between service members and partners, survey responses were analyzed in a one-to-one fashion in an attempt to maintain equal number of both participant types (SM and partner). Data was analyzed as it was collected until a an attempted saturation of themes was reached. Saturation of themes was identified as the point in data analyses when no new themes emerged for two consecutive responses as agreed upon by two or more members of the researcher team. 